# Modeling global solar radiation from environmental inputs using machine learning with automatic model selection: a case study in Tanzania


Solar radiation prediction is essential in load control on electrical networks allowing a balanced energy supply in accordance with the network demand. However, obtaining the necessary data for such predictions requires stations with specific equipment, which is generally expensive and scarce. This conflict between the need for data and the difficulty in obtaining it produces a scenario where new and cheaper technologies must be used to mitigate existing problems. In this context, machine learning (ML) models have been satisfactorily used to predict solar radiation in different locations worldwide. 
This research contribution is the development of a more straightforward strategy for model selection and, simultaneously, obtaining the best model to predict the global horizontal irradiance for the Dar es Salaam region, Tanzania. Four different ML models are developed and compared to predict solar radiation, i.e., Multivariate Adaptive Regression Spline (MARS), Support Vector Regression (SVR), Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGB), and Ridge Regression (RR). A total of 252 different scenarios are analyzed in the search for the best combination between the ML models and variables subset. The results showed that the applied four ML models can predict solar radiation with a reasonable error rate. The research also indicates the proper choice of the available environmental variables can lead to less complex modeling with improved predictions.
